Title: Week 4 of 2026: Cake
Lang: EN
Status: hidden
Date: 2026-01-25 21:20:00 -0300
Modified: 2026-01-25 21:20:00 -0300
Tags: weeknotes

* This week I've been having these dreams where I'm assigned a task, like preparing a very complex dish, directing a very important scene in a movie, or figuring out how to solve a Rubik's cube for the first time. Or getting late to the airport and I need to go through security and all that stuff very efficiently or else I'd be missing the plane. I obsess over these tasks and I wake up in the middle of the night.
* People's interest in other people's dreams is a 50/50 chance.
* I read <https://kudmitry.com/articles/dead-internet-theory/> and I do agree that internet used to be fun.
* I spent about the whole week rewriting the CI for one of our projects and it was daunting. I need to learn how to use <https://github.com/firecow/gitlab-ci-local/tree/master> eventually.
* I'm starting to use <https://github.blog/ai-and-ml/github-copilot/5-tips-for-writing-better-custom-instructions-for-copilot/> prompt and so far I like it very much. I'm also getting addicted to notebooklm.
* AIs can summarize almost anything now but a summary is hardly anything close to real understanding. You still need to verify claims and do the learning yourself, so that the summary makes sense and you own the knowledge for real.
* I had cake almost three days in a row and a lot of social life this week and it felt good.
* I watched Sinners, Sentimental Value, The Pitt S2 and Task. Liked them all.
* I'm on chapter 7 or something of the ukulele book and it's gotten to this part where I have to write down things to understand them. The neck is too short to fit all the notes and I'm having a hard time not buying a guitar at this point.
* Next week I'm out for vacations.
